1. What is a variable? Why might a programmer use a variable?
Something you set the value for. A programmer can use them to save time and space coding.

2. If the value of first_name is "Abraham" and last_name is "Lincoln", explain the order in which Ruby will run the line full_name = first_name + last_name, and what the final result will be.
It will run the last_name + the first_name and display it as Abraham Lincoln.

Data Types
3. For each of the following data types, write a short definition and give at least one example of when you might use the data type in a program. (Don't use an example we've already provided.)

string:  text - password
integer: numbers and negative numbers - my birthday
float: Numbers with decimals - money
nil: nothing -when a variable hasn't been assigned anything - if you have a questionnaire
boolean: true and false values - are you from Chicago?
Algorithms -An algorithm is a set of steps to solve a problem or accomplish a task. - counting up or giving new users instructions on an application.
4. What is an algorithm? An algorithm is a set of steps to solve a problem or accomplish a task.

5. What are two common categories of algorithm in computer science? 
searching and sorting

Methods
6. What is a method? Why might a programmer choose to use a method? reusable piece of code that does something. It can ask for a user's email and password to display something. 

7. Define the following terms as they relate to a method. 

return value - every method returns a value in ruby. 
side effect-functions or expressions
parameter-variables in parentheses when method is being defined.
argument-arguments are the items that the variable is defining.
implicit return-the value of the last expression in a statement. 
8. What are global scope and method scope? How do those scopes impact the availability of data at different points in a program?
Global - available throughout program
Local- depends on scope, could just apply to one small section. 
Control Flow
9. What is control flow? Why might a programmer choose to use flow control?
Allows you to select different outcomes based on user input. If they have a form or something that requires user input to be interpreted yet there is no one answer that the user must give. 
10. Define the following terms as they relate to flow control.

loop- executes blocks of code while their conditions are met. 
if-takes booleans and executes code based off of whether or not the data is true or false
else-must be paired with if and will run if the previous condition is not met
elsif-must be paired with if and will run if previous statement's conditions arent met and if it's conditions are met.
while- as long as the condition is true run the code. 
until- until the condition is true, run the code. 